[Amit Varma]: A few days ago, I decided to go watch a movie.
[Amit Varma]: There was a lot of traffic outside, and I didn't feel like driving.
[Amit Varma]: So I booked an Uber.
[Amit Varma]: It's normally quite cheap, but this was rush hour, and the price that was quoted was three
[Amit Varma]: times the normal price.
[Amit Varma]: Three times.
[Amit Varma]: I was outraged.
[Amit Varma]: I thought, this is robbery.
[Amit Varma]: These greedy capitalists are exploiting me.
[Amit Varma]: The government should step in and ban search pricing.
[Amit Varma]: I cancelled my trip, and decided to watch something on Netflix instead.
[Amit Varma]: Just as I switched the app on, a brilliant idea came to my mind.
[Amit Varma]: Why should the government ban only search pricing by Uber?
[Amit Varma]: It should ban all high prices.
[Amit Varma]: There are so many things I don't have the money to buy.
[Amit Varma]: Luxuries I can't afford.
[Amit Varma]: The government should fix the price of everything.
[Amit Varma]: Mercedes cars should be available for one lakh.
[Amit Varma]: Four bedroom flats in Bandra should be available for two lakhs.
[Amit Varma]: Food in five-star hotels should be free.
[Amit Varma]: Wow, what an idea.
[Amit Varma]: We could all live the good life.
[Amit Varma]: What do you think?
[Amit Varma]: Would this work?
[Unknown]: Welcome to The Seen and The Unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics, and behavioral
[Unknown]: science.
[Unknown]: Please welcome your host, Amit Bharma.
[Amit Varma]: Welcome to The Seen and The Unseen.
[Amit Varma]: Today's show is about banning search pricing in Uber.
[Amit Varma]: The seen effect, no high prices.
[Amit Varma]: The unseen effect, no cabs.
[Amit Varma]: Price controls always lead to shortages.
[Amit Varma]: My guest on the show today is Kartik Shashidhar, an economist and writer now based in London,
[Amit Varma]: who enlightened me in the last episode of The Seen and The Unseen on how football transfers
[Amit Varma]: work.
[Amit Varma]: His first book, Between the Buyer and the Seller, will be released later this week and
[Amit Varma]: I recommend you pre-order it on Amazon right away.
[Amit Varma]: Between the Buyer and the Seller is a book about markets.
[Amit Varma]: It evaluates markets from the point of view of how liquid they are and it looks at different
[Amit Varma]: kinds of markets.
[Amit Varma]: One of his chapters is about how Uber disrupted the taxi market, making it far more liquid
[Amit Varma]: and thereby helping both consumers and drivers.
[Amit Varma]: I'd like to talk about that a bit before I get to the subject of search pricing.
[Amit Varma]: Kartik, welcome to the show.
[Amit Varma]: Hi Amit.
[Amit Varma]: Good to be back here.
[Amit Varma]: So Kartik, last week we spoke about liquid and illiquid markets in the context of football
[Amit Varma]: transfers and first you define liquid markets as markets where buyers and sellers find each
[Amit Varma]: other very easily.
[Amit Varma]: There's no transaction cost and there are so many of them that you can arrive at a good
[Amit Varma]: price.
[Amit Varma]: You can gauge the supply and demand and arrive at a reasonable price very easily.
[Amit Varma]: The example of that being computerized stock exchange and equally an illiquid market is
[Amit Varma]: where this is much harder to do.
[Amit Varma]: For example, the football market where there are few buyers and sellers and all kinds of
[Amit Varma]: circumstantial factors pop up and every player is unique and not a commodity that you can
[Amit Varma]: easily find a price for him.
[Amit Varma]: And the assumption often when we talk about these things is that this is just the nature
[Amit Varma]: of the market.
[Amit Varma]: That a liquid market is going to be liquid and an illiquid market is going to be liquid
[Amit Varma]: and there's not much that can be done about it.
[Amit Varma]: But in your book you have an entire chapter about a market which was fairly illiquid and
[Amit Varma]: which has become far more liquid in recent years.
[Amit Varma]: I'm talking about Uber obviously and its dynamic pricing.
[Amit Varma]: Can you shed more light on that?
[Amit Varma]: How did that illiquid market become much more liquid?
[Guest]: Okay.
[Guest]: So I think it was about three years back I think I gave a talk at the Goa project where
[Guest]: I spoke about how auto rickshaw and taxi markets can never be liquid, about how they can never
[Guest]: be efficient.
[Guest]: The premise of my talk was that I examined regulation of auto rickshaw and taxi markets
[Guest]: in different countries and cities and said that each of them has a particular problem
[Guest]: because the way the costs are defined is so complex that no regulation can possibly capture
[Guest]: all of them and so it's almost impossible to regulate and become efficient and all that.
[Guest]: And at the same time that is when Uber was really taking off and it had taken its first
[Guest]: steps in India and then Ola was also coming up and so in about a year's time that talk
[Guest]: that I gave in Goa became invalid because here you had a market which had once been
[Guest]: extremely illiquid but had suddenly become far more liquid just because of exchanging
[Guest]: superior information.
[Guest]: And a lot of this superior information exchange happened because they introduced the price
[Guest]: and dynamic pricing into the mix.
[Amit Varma]: And just to give a sense of what the market has traditionally been like, especially in
[Amit Varma]: cities like Mumbai and Delhi where I've lived, is that black and yellow taxis and auto rickshaws
[Amit Varma]: are licensed by the government, limited licenses are given out which sell at a premium and
[Amit Varma]: therefore what happens is that the supply is artificially constrained.
[Amit Varma]: Now when you artificially constrain the supply, demand will inevitably overtake it and there
[Amit Varma]: will be shortages.
[Amit Varma]: So typically no one is really willing to, for example in Delhi, no auto rickshaw guy
[Amit Varma]: will go by the meter.
[Amit Varma]: You have to negotiate which is fair enough.
[Amit Varma]: But even that negotiation or any interaction between the buyer and the seller happens in
[Amit Varma]: a state of deeply imperfect information because neither has an idea of what the supply and
[Amit Varma]: demand situation is.
[Amit Varma]: The guy trying to hail an auto rickshaw won't know if there's another auto rickshaw around
[Amit Varma]: the corner or if there are five more a street away.
[Amit Varma]: And ditto for the auto rickshaw guy who doesn't know how many consumers would potentially
[Amit Varma]: want his services.
[Amit Varma]: And Uber's technology and dynamic pricing takes care of the information problem, takes
[Amit Varma]: care of the matching supply and demand problem and completely changes everything.
[Guest]: Yeah.
[Guest]: So I think the way the markets are regulated in Mumbai and Delhi are not very different
[Guest]: from the way they are regulated in, let's say, New York and London.
[Guest]: The traditional view of regulators has been like, let us give out a limited number of
[Guest]: licenses and then impose certain rules on how these licenses are to be used, which basically
[Guest]: implies this is the price you can charge, this is how the price is going to be calculated,
[Guest]: and you can work for so many hours a day.
[Guest]: Depending on the jurisdiction to jurisdiction, these things change, but that's how these
[Guest]: markets have been regulated.
[Guest]: But obviously, the regulators can't have a constant.
[Guest]: So the first problem that comes with this is the demand supply thing because the number
[Guest]: of licenses is capped and doesn't necessarily increase with time.
[Guest]: Very soon, you have a demand supply imbalance where regulation is well-enforced, such as
[Guest]: New York.
[Guest]: It just becomes a case of fastest fingers first.
[Guest]: Whoever manages to get to the taxi first gets the taxi.
[Guest]: Where regulation is poorly enforced, like in Chennai, it becomes a case of negotiations.
[Guest]: Whoever can pay the most for the ride will get the ride.
[Guest]: So in that sense, it's a good market in Chennai where because of the regulations, you have
[Guest]: a negotiation and the price mechanism for allocating the auto rickshaws.
[Guest]: But the problem is that there's no information and there's no information exchange.
[Guest]: So if I were to, and in the last episode, I spoke about how in the football market,
[Guest]: because there's no good valuation mechanism, the bid and ask can be very far.
[Guest]: And from my personal experience in places like Chennai, they are fairly far.
[Guest]: You typically start bargaining at half the rate that the driver quotes you and so on,
[Guest]: which is absolutely ridiculous because typically, taxi markets, you know there's a particular
[Guest]: reasonable distance estimate, time estimate, and so on.
[Guest]: So you should have a good idea of what it should cost, but because you don't know what
[Guest]: the competitive landscape is like, you end up trying to bargain fairly aggressively and
[Guest]: so on.
[Guest]: So once you have a central aggregator who comes in, so this is the other thing that
[Guest]: I talk about in the book, is that a lot of people demonize middlemen, they say that middlemen
[Guest]: add no value and so on, and Uber, Ola, et cetera, are nothing but middlemen who try
[Guest]: to connect drivers and passengers.
[Guest]: What the middleman does in this case is to enable transformation of information.
[Guest]: He gets data on who's trying to travel from where to where at what point in time, and
[Guest]: then kind of transmits this data to all other users in the form of a price mechanism.
[Guest]: So that's how they manage to kind of, while it might still be demand and supply, it's
[Guest]: still kind of a much more informed, search price is a much more informed multiple than
[Guest]: the bargains you have with your auto rickshaws.
[Amit Varma]: And that informational aspect is a key part of dynamic pricing.
[Amit Varma]: For example, when prices go up, they typically, they'll do two things.
[Amit Varma]: One is they'll incentivize idle drivers to come out in the market, because, you know,
[Amit Varma]: they know that there's more money to be made.
[Amit Varma]: And equally, if someone wants to use the Uber for a very trivial purpose, he might choose
[Amit Varma]: to just stay home, or he might choose to take public transport.
[Amit Varma]: But if someone needs it for an urgent purpose, like going to the catching a flight or going
[Amit Varma]: to the hospital, you know, they'd gladly pay the higher price, which is a true reflection
[Amit Varma]: of supply and demand.
[Amit Varma]: So that kind of gets me to the crux of this episode.
[Amit Varma]: I want to really ask you about is, in India, we've often had outrage at prices rising at
[Amit Varma]: times of high demand, which of course, they're bound to do in this dynamic system.
[Amit Varma]: And in some places, you know, like Karnataka banned Uber search pricing at one point and
[Amit Varma]: Delhi experimented with banning it.
[Amit Varma]: Now, the scene effects of this obviously is that the customer doesn't pay more than whatever
[Amit Varma]: the capped price is.
[Amit Varma]: What are the unseen effects?
[Guest]: Okay, so, first of all, I mean, let's distinguish between a capped price and banning dynamic
[Guest]: pricing.
[Guest]: I think the two are completely different things.
[Guest]: So we'll come to that in a little bit.
[Guest]: So I think what the regulators try to do is to completely ban dynamic pricing at all.
[Guest]: They say that you need to have a particular fixed formula for pricing and charge customers
[Guest]: based on that.
[Guest]: The scene effect is that, okay, maybe this is going to keep the prices low.
[Guest]: That order one unseen effect is that because it is going to jack up the average price.
[Guest]: So if the earlier price was, let's say, 10 rupees, I'm just throwing a random number.
[Guest]: Now the average price will be 15 rupees because you can't jack up from 10 to 20 when you want
[Guest]: now and so on.
[Guest]: So instead of charging 10 rupees all the time, you end up charging 15 rupees all the time.
[Guest]: So the average price ends up going up.
[Guest]: So that's the first order unseen effect.
[Guest]: Second order unseen effect is that it leads to poor allocation in terms of you end up
[Guest]: allocating the right to the people who ask for it first or who are lucky enough to be
[Guest]: where they were when they asked for it and so on, rather than to the people who need
[Amit Varma]: it more.
[Unknown]: It's a first come first serve.
[Guest]: It's a first come first serve.
[Guest]: And then the other thing is that, I mean, yeah, there's no, because these guys are function
[Guest]: as marketplaces where the suppliers are also kind of independent people and not employees.
[Guest]: What happens is that when you kind of ban dynamic pricing, there's no information to
[Guest]: the suppliers as well in terms of when their services are needed the most.
[Guest]: So it might happen that, for example, there might be a particular Sunday when all Uber
[Guest]: drivers decide to take off for whatever reason.
[Guest]: And that will lead to insane shortages because you can't use price to ration out whatever
[Guest]: cabs you have.
[Guest]: And there's no way for you to get any of these guys who are enjoying their Sundays to come
[Guest]: out and drive for you.
[Guest]: But if you have dynamic pricing, then on the one hand, like on a particularly busy Sunday,
[Guest]: whatever cabs are available, get allocated to the people who need it the most.
[Guest]: One.
[Guest]: And second one is that, like, I mean, because the prices are higher, the drivers who value
[Guest]: their Sundays less than the others are actually going to come out and drive because they know
[Guest]: there's some good money to be made.
[Guest]: And there's been some research, by the way, Uber is already 80 years old and there's been
[Guest]: enough research on whether dynamic pricing actually leads to a change in supply or if
[Guest]: it's just a change in demand and so on.
[Guest]: So one very interesting piece of research has been done by a bunch of guys from Northeastern
[Guest]: University.
[Guest]: And what they found is that high surge prices may not necessarily bring new drivers into
[Guest]: the market.
[Guest]: As in people who are sitting at home don't automatically see, oh, it's 2x, let me go
[Guest]: take my car out and drive.
[Guest]: But what it does is to, whatever cars are there in the city, they get allocated in a
[Guest]: better manner.
[Guest]: So let's say I'm in Bandra, I'm an Uber driver, I'm in Bandra, and I see that I'm not getting
[Guest]: a ride for five minutes, I've waited without getting a ride.
[Guest]: Now I see that in Malad, the surge multiple right now is 1.5x.
[Guest]: I immediately know where to go to find my next ride because I know that, and this is
[Guest]: by the way, Uber shares this as a heat map with all its drivers.
[Guest]: So I know that there is a demand supply imbalance in Malad, and if I go there, I will not only
[Guest]: get a passenger, but I'll also get a passenger who will be willing to pay more.
[Guest]: And so it allocates the existing supply in a much, much superior manner.
[Amit Varma]: And also, is it fair to say that beyond the immediate short term impact of, let's say,
[Amit Varma]: at five o'clock on a Friday evening in rush hour, existing drivers are incentivized to
[Amit Varma]: go out for a ride because the price is higher.
[Amit Varma]: And also in a broader sort of framework, if Uber drivers, because of this, because the
[Amit Varma]: services are valued, you know, get what they are valued more efficiently, if they actually
[Amit Varma]: start making more money on a monthly basis or whatever, you might have people in other
[Amit Varma]: professions saying, hey, maybe I should go for that.
[Amit Varma]: And that can also help fill the sort of supply gap a little bit because, say, a night watchman
[Amit Varma]: who's earning 10,000 a month might see his friend who's an Uber driver earning 20,000,
[Amit Varma]: and he makes a shift, which kind of also helps imbalance.
[Guest]: Oh, yes.
[Guest]: And I think this has definitely been happening in India over the last couple of years, especially,
[Guest]: I think, in order to build out their market, what Uber did was to, they gave out pretty
[Guest]: good incentives to get drivers on board for a while.
[Guest]: And so and that's got a lot of people to move from other professions to get driving for
[Guest]: these guys.
[Guest]: And so and also, like, a lot of these guys are part time, they don't, like, I have met
[Guest]: quite a few drivers who they have contracts with these big taxi companies who lend out
[Guest]: cars to corporates, but that they only spend about two days a week doing that because that's
[Guest]: the amount of work they get.
[Guest]: The other time they ride Uber, they let out their cars for Uber and so on.
[Guest]: So it's sort of so because of this whole contracting model, because they don't have employees and
[Guest]: so on, it makes it extremely flexible, and it makes it extremely makes the market far
[Guest]: more efficient.
[Amit Varma]: Far more efficient people are much more productive with the time the buyers benefit the sellers
[Amit Varma]: benefit from.
[Amit Varma]: Absolutely.
[Amit Varma]: So let me try and sum up what you mentioned as the unseen effects of banning search pricing,
[Amit Varma]: or dynamic pricing.
[Amit Varma]: Number one, the average price tends to go up.
[Amit Varma]: So where your basic beginners price might be 50, you know, the system allows for the
[Amit Varma]: fact that the pricing will be fixed, and it's instead 75 and people who would otherwise
[Amit Varma]: have got a ride at 50 at non peak hours will have to pay 75 anyway.
[Amit Varma]: Number two is in the short term, they lead to shortages because whenever demand outstrips
[Amit Varma]: supply, for example, if there are 200 customers who are waiting for 50 taxis, it will inevitably
[Amit Varma]: be first come first serve, or as you said, fastest finger first and the first 50 guys
[Amit Varma]: get it and the rest are left stranded, no matter how important their need is whether
[Amit Varma]: they need to go to the airport to catch a flight or take a relative to the hospital.
[Amit Varma]: The third effect is that banning search pricing prevents information about the demand supply
[Amit Varma]: shortfall from getting out in the market in an efficient way.
[Amit Varma]: So drivers, when there's a shortfall of drivers 200 people 150 cars, a dynamics price system
[Amit Varma]: would have kept a higher price and incentivize more drivers to go out there equally it would
[Amit Varma]: have incentivized some people who wanted taxis to instead take public transport or just stay
[Amit Varma]: at home if their need wasn't urgent, and that information doesn't get out anymore.
[Amit Varma]: And number four, it perpetuates the system of shortages because this information isn't
[Amit Varma]: getting out.
[Amit Varma]: So those typical demand supply shortfalls will always remain.
[Guest]: Absolutely.
[Guest]: And this is one other thing that because that dynamic pricing kind of helps, right, it's
[Guest]: basically in terms of like, keeping drivers in the market.
[Guest]: So what happens is that like now, with when you have fixed prices, the demand supply equation
[Guest]: turns around rapidly through the day.
[Guest]: So during the morning peak hours, when people are need the rights to go to work to school
[Guest]: and all that, like you have massive demand, shortage of supply.
[Guest]: And then through the day, let's say beyond the morning office hours until the evening
[Guest]: office, school hours or office hours, there's very little demand.
[Guest]: So what happens in that case is that like, kind of you have people switching off, you
[Guest]: have people kind of going off the roads, people, you figure out that you're anyway not going
[Guest]: to get too many rights in this period.
[Guest]: So you might as well not drive the taxis and so on.
[Guest]: And because of that, what happens is like, the liquidity goes down in these periods.
[Guest]: Because the demand is low, the supply also contracts and like, it becomes illiquid.
[Guest]: What dynamic pricing allows is that like, it says, it's okay.
[Guest]: I know that there aren't too many people asking for a ride right now, why don't you drive
[Guest]: at a lower price?
[Guest]: Anyway, you're out on the road, anyway, your opportunity cost of doing the next ride now
[Guest]: is going to be lower than it was in the morning.
[Guest]: So why don't you just accept a lower price right now?
[Guest]: And the lower price also means that like more people are willing to kind of travel then
[Guest]: and so on.
[Guest]: So I think it massively improves the utilization of the taxis and of the driver's dynamic pricing.
[Guest]: And that's one effect, which is a, it's a kind of an N-th order effect, which is a little
[Guest]: hard to see.
[Guest]: But I think that's, that's where I think these days are really kind of improving the market.
[Amit Varma]: So now I want to move on to, you know, from the economics of it to a sort of a political
[Amit Varma]: economy question.
[Amit Varma]: Like typically, we find that interest groups which ask for surge pricing to be banned or
[Amit Varma]: which you know, want legislation against Uber and Ola are typically the entrenched people
[Amit Varma]: in the business like the black and yellow guys or the unions of the auto rickshaw guys
[Amit Varma]: who realized that they are getting hurt by all this because if an Uber is cheaper than
[Amit Varma]: an auto rickshaw and much more convenient than a black and yellow, why should you take
[Amit Varma]: those?
[Amit Varma]: So it's easy to paint them as villains.
[Amit Varma]: But at the same time, they also have a legitimate point when they say that they are victims
[Amit Varma]: of bad regulation, because in the first place, the government put them in that mess by constraining
[Amit Varma]: the supply.
[Amit Varma]: And they often had to pay a lot just to get that license.
[Amit Varma]: For example, a New York medallion at one point was prohibitively expensive.
[Amit Varma]: And the idea was a guy would earn it back over the period of years.
[Amit Varma]: And then suddenly up comes Uber and you know, the demand for the regular taxis has gone
[Amit Varma]: down greatly.
[Amit Varma]: So how do we sort of reconcile all these issues?
[Guest]: Yeah, so it's a very legitimate kind of a claim that these guys are victims of bad regulation
[Guest]: because I mean, they got into those professions because they were told it's the number of
[Guest]: licenses is capped, then you can earn so much and so on.
[Guest]: So I think in terms of this rate, what I would prefer is more of a kind of what I call is
[Guest]: a continuous solution rather than a discrete solution.
[Guest]: I think the best example of that I have seen a penalty against Uber and Ola, which kind
[Guest]: of possibly favors these incumbent guys, but doesn't like really eliminate the new guys
[Guest]: is in the Mumbai Airport domestic terminal.
[Guest]: The last time I traveled to Mumbai was about a year back.
[Guest]: So things might have changed since then.
[Guest]: But what I saw was this like, if you are an Uber or an Ola who's looking to pick up a
[Guest]: passenger from the Mumbai domestic terminal, you need to pay a surcharge.
[Guest]: You need to pay a kind of a short term parking fee of 100 rupees or something like that.
[Guest]: So that pushes up the cost of taking one of these things.
[Guest]: So it's like, okay, I know you're disrupting the market.
[Guest]: So you pay us a part of that as our rent, which we will distribute to the incumbent
[Guest]: so that the disruption is kind of eased and so on.
[Guest]: So I think that is a significantly superior solution compared to earlier efforts where
[Guest]: they decided to either ban these guys from the airport or say that we want to put a price
[Guest]: floor, you can't charge less than this and so on.
[Guest]: So I think this is something like this, where like you have a kind of a, you tax these guys,
[Guest]: you tax these guys, use a part of their tax proceeds to kind of ease the transition from
[Guest]: the old regime to the new regime.
[Guest]: But I mean, it takes a tremendous political will to do this.
[Amit Varma]: And also the example you gave, I mean, that that airport thing is still on, by the way,
[Amit Varma]: I think they have to pay 110 bucks to enter.
[Amit Varma]: But then that is a case of a limited space, which is the airport, which is charging an
[Amit Varma]: access fee, which it is within its rights to do and whatever.
[Amit Varma]: But those kinds of things, it strikes me, just thinking aloud, that if you expanded
[Amit Varma]: over a city and you tax Uber and you sort of subsidize the other guys and you ease the
[Amit Varma]: transition, a, those taxes slash subsidies tend to become permanent over time, because,
[Amit Varma]: you know, regulation always moves in the direction of more regulation, not less regulation.
[Amit Varma]: And that might, one could argue, defeat the purpose a little bit, because if you had an
[Amit Varma]: illiquid market, which has suddenly been made liquid by this new technology, why restrict
[Amit Varma]: the liquidity in the market through this kind of a measure?
[Guest]: No, I completely agree that this kind of stuff, this doesn't restrict the liquidity, it slightly
[Guest]: reduces the liquidity.
[Guest]: I think what happens is like, I mean, if you have this, so I'm not offering it as a solution,
[Guest]: I'm not offering, I'm not saying this is what needs to be done.
[Guest]: But what I'm saying is, if you're thinking of the solution as a ban, this is a much superior
[Guest]: way to do it than a ban, as in it's a, it's better than what the solutions that are being
[Guest]: proposed now are things like ban, things like, you can't have surge pricing, and it's quite
[Guest]: crazy if you're an Uber driver right now, I mean, like, because regulation is so easy,
[Guest]: you don't know when you might be stopped, and a cop might decide to take away your car
[Guest]: and so on.
[Guest]: It's, it's like completely unfair to these guys how things are being regulated right
[Guest]: now.
[Guest]: So I mean, like, yeah, so having some kind of a basic regulation is great.
[Guest]: But yeah, it's basically in terms of like, not as in having the regulation is great,
[Guest]: because like, you will at least know when a cop can stop you and when he can't stop
[Guest]: you and so on at the very least, but like, it's kind of you don't want to, I completely
[Guest]: agree with you that like, regulation always moves, increasing over time and so on.
[Guest]: So but yeah, so in that sense, like a ban is like, the outright, the worst option, the
[Amit Varma]: worst idea.
[Amit Varma]: At a practical level, I completely agree with you and it's kind of tragic that companies
[Amit Varma]: like Uber are not just in the business of business, but they also have to be in the
[Amit Varma]: business of politics because in every local jurisdiction, they have to face different
[Amit Varma]: kinds of restrictions aimed at them.
[Amit Varma]: And I think one thing that one measure we should certainly take immediately to make
[Amit Varma]: life easier for the auto guys and the taxi guys who have been hit is remove the regulations
[Amit Varma]: on them, remove the sort of licensing constraints, remove the pricing constraints, and let them
[Amit Varma]: figure out mechanisms to, you know, join the liquid market or be part of their own kind
[Amit Varma]: of liquid market with their own apps or whatever.
[Amit Varma]: But remove those restrictions, because right now, it's really not a level playing field.
[Amit Varma]: And the solution for that is not to make it less level for the Ubers and Olas of the world
[Amit Varma]: and put the same restrictions on them.
[Amit Varma]: But the solution for that is to make it equally free for everybody, because that is how both
[Amit Varma]: buyers and sellers benefit.
[Guest]: No, I completely agree with I think there have been some markets every time what every
[Guest]: time you have some controversy with Uber or something, you have talks of a taxi union
[Guest]: which says that, okay, we are going to get our own app developed so that we can do something
[Guest]: similar.
[Guest]: But unfortunately, the problem with them is that they have like price caps, price, price
[Guest]: flows, everything, there's like way too much control on their life that they can't do any
[Guest]: of this thing.
[Guest]: I mean, it would be great.
[Guest]: I mean, think of it, right?
[Guest]: I mean, there's no reason why the government should be setting price flows, like on something
[Guest]: like this.
[Guest]: So if you can have, I mean, again, this is a second best solution, this is not the ideal
[Guest]: solution.
[Guest]: The ideal solution would be to not have any regulation.
[Guest]: But I'm talking about like, basically, if you really want to regulate this thing, what
[Guest]: you do is have a price cap on these guys and then say like, okay, you're free to charge
[Guest]: anywhere up to this.
[Guest]: They can form their own, each union can have their own app for all you care and they can
[Guest]: have, so rather than just having Uber and Ola, I'm a little uncomfortable with the Duopoly
[Guest]: right now.
[Guest]: But you will have like more players because like, and so on, so it's like, there are definitely
[Guest]: significantly better ways to make this market more efficient.
[Guest]: Awesome.
[Amit Varma]: Karthik, thanks so much for coming on the show and I hope everyone buys your book and
[Amit Varma]: learns from it.
[Guest]: You're welcome.
[Guest]: Thanks a lot.
[Amit Varma]: If you enjoyed listening to Karthik's insights, do hop over to Amazon or your nearest bookstore
[Amit Varma]: and pick up his book, Between the Buyer and the Seller.
[Amit Varma]: You can follow him on Twitter at Karthiks, K-A-R-T-H-I-K-S.
[Amit Varma]: You can follow me at Amit Verma, A-M-I-T-V-A-R-M-A.
[Amit Varma]: And if you enjoyed the Scene in the Unseen, all our archives are available at sceneunseen.in.
[Amit Varma]: See you next week.
[Unknown]: Take care.